Description of the data files in this directory
by John Mark Ockerbloom (last updated 22 Mar 2013)

The libraries and cattype files give instructions on how to link
to searches at various libraries registered in the Forward to Libraries
service.  

The files are made up of records, one for each library or catalog type,
separated by blank lines.  Lines beginning with # are comments,
and ignored.  Each line is in the form

ATTRIBUTE value

where ATTRIBUTE is all-caps with no spaces, and value extends to the end
of a line.  At present, attributes are not repeatable in a record.

Here are how the attributes in each file are interpreted:

ID 

In the libraries file, this gives the identifier used for the library
in question.  We try to use ISIL identifiers (see http://biblstandard.dk/isil/)
whenever possible, and often use the ones OCLC assigns, in the interest
of compatibility with the WorldCat registry.  Certain characters from the
ISIL identifiers are altered when they might cause problems in URLs; e.g.

   # becomes -SHARP
   $ becomes -DOLLAR

Identifiers without any hyphens are not ISIL identifiers, but were
coined by me for library systems that didn't appear to have ISIL identifiers
at the time I added them to the database.

CATTYPE 

In the cattype file, this gives the identifier for a catalog type record.
In the libraries file, it imports the attribute values from the catalog type
record with that identifier into the current library's attributes.  Imported
attribute values can be overridden in the libraries file by a re-declaration
of the same attribute.

NAME 

This is the name displayed for the library.

LOCATION

This is the location information displayed for the library.

COUNTRY

This is usually an uppercased rendition of the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country
code for the country in which the library is located (which is also its
top-level DNS domain).  May be omitted for libraries in the US.
Exceptional values include "00", for libraries placed under "Global 
library services" instead of a country, and "SUPPRESS", for libraries not
included in the list of destinations, but for which we still want to 
record some information.

STATE

This is the two-letter postal code of the state, territory, or district
in which the library is located.  If set, currently implies that the
library is in the US.  (But we might use it for Australian states,
Canadian provinces, or other regions within a country, in the future.)

SOURCE

This is one or more strings (separated by | when more than one), that
indicate patterns that will show up in a referer URL when a visitor is
coming from the website of the current library.  We currently
use this when FTL's behavior varies depending on whether a link
is coming from the Online Books Page, Wikipedia, or some other source.

SUBURL, AUTURL, TITURL, ATIURL, KEYURL

These are patterns that indicate how to construct a URL for a search
at the current library by subject, author, title, author/title, and keyword,
respectively.  The value generally contains one or more substitution
insructions, indicated by ${var} or ${var:filters}.  In these substitution
instructions, ${var} is replaced by the value of the attribute named var,
and ${var:filters} is replaced by the value of the attribute named var
filtered through the filters denoted by filters.  For example,
${BASEURL} will substitute the value of the BASEURL attribute in the
libraries record.   The following special attributes are provided by
the search itself:

   The ARG attribute is used for the subject search term for SUBURL,
      the author search term for AUTURL, the title search term for TITURL,
       and the keywords in KEYURL.

   The AUTHOR and TITLE attributes are used for the author and title
    search terms, respectively, in ATIURL.

The filters, if present, consist of one or more letters that indicate
a transformation of the attribute value, as follows:

     A : Remove initial article ("A", "An", "The") from a value.
           This is sometimes used for title searches when the target
           search system doesn't expect them.
     K : "Keyword-ify" a value by taking out extra punctuation and
           other non-word content
     N : "Normalize" a value by turning any non-ASCII characters into
           their closest ASCII equivalent (e.g. accented-e becomes e).
           Unknown non-ASCII characters are removed.
     S;  "Simplify" a value by removing material past the second comma,
            or the first parenthesis after the first comma.  This is sometimes
            used, for instance, to take out parts of a name heading that
            might not be represented, or handled correctly, in a given
            library catalog.  For instance, "Twain, Mark, 1835-1910"
            would become simply "Twain, Mark", and
            "Chesterton, G. K. (Gilbert Keith), 1874-1936" would become
            simply "Chesterton, G. K.".

When a particualr search cannot be determined for a given library, FTL
will try to use a simpler search that is defined.  For example, a library
with no ATIURL might have author/title searches handled via TITURL,
AUTURL, or KEYURL, depending on what definitions and data are provided.
Similarly, a subject search requested for terms that do not appear to
correspond to known library headings might get handled via a general
keyword search.  General keyword search is the search of last resort,
so all library records should declare or import KEYURL at least.

DEFAULT

Indicates the URL that should be used when FTL cannot figure out how
to construct a search at all.  (For example, if FTL is called with 
a VIAF identifier that it cannot map onto a heading, and there is
no way defined to search a catalog directly by VIAF, the best thing
to do is to give up and just put the user at the library's search home.)
If the value of DEFAULT is DOMAIN, then the default URL will be
the domain part of the BASEURL attribute value.  If there is no value
defined for this attribute, the complete value of BASEURL will be used.

FILTERS

Indicates additional filters that should be applied to substititions
in the *URL attributes for a particular library.

IPRANGE

This is one or more CIDR declarations (separated by | when more than one) that
indicate IP ranges used within the current library or institution.
When defined, FTL will route users within those IP ranges to that
library unless another preference has been expressed.

  ====

Any other attribute value is simply made available for substitutions.
The most common such attribute is BASEURL, but some catalog types also
use other substitutions for things like location codes, search index
names, and so on.

