Description of the URL syntax used by FTL servers
by John Mark Ockerbloom (last updated 21 Nov 2024)

Forward to Libraries (FTL) servers process URLs to redirect them to 
searches in a library of the user's choice, or to get information
from a user about what library they would like to search, for a given
query or in general.

BASIC SYNTAX 

The syntax of the URLs is as follows:

  <FTL service>?<attribute>=<value>&<attribute>=<value>....

(repeat for as many attribute values are called for)

where FTL service is the base URL of the FTL service, and the attributes
and their values are described below.

For example, the URL

 https://onlinebooks.library.upenn.edu/webbin/ftl?library=OCLC-PLF&kw=dogs

directs the FTL server at The Online Books Page site to redirect to a general
keyword search for the word "dogs" in the catalog of the Free
Library of Philadelphia (which has library code 'OCLC-PLF').

SERVERS 

I currently support two FTL service instances.  One is at

    https://onlinebooks.library.upenn.edu/webbin/ftl

and is intended to support links from The Online Books Page.
(It can also be used for links from other sites, including other
 libraries, but please check with me before you start using it
  regularly, since it may be heavily loaded.)

The other is at
 
    https://ftl.toolforge.org/cgi-bin/ftl

and is intended to support links from Wikipedia and other Wikimedia services.
(This was installed and is maintained by requests from the Wikipedia
 community, which wanted to use a forwarder that was not external to
 Wikipedia's infrastructure.)

When called without any attributes, the base FTL service URL will
display a list of libraries one can choose to search, as well as
the library the user prefers if a preference has been set in a cookie.
Each FTL server has its own preference cookies, so a user may have
one preferred library for links from The Online Books Page and a different
preferred library (or none at all) for links from Wikipedia.

PARAMETERS

These are the parameter attributes supported:

  library

The value of this parameter is the code for the library that the user
wants to search.   Codes for different libraries are defined in the
"libraries" file the server uses, the format of which is described 
in the "datafiles" documentation file in the FTL documentation.

The standard "libraries" file, used by the two servers mentioned above
that we support., is currently published on Github at

  https://github.com/JohnMarkOckerbloom/ftl/blob/master/data/libraries

but individual FTL servers can use their own libraries file if they wish.

If a value for the library parameter is not supplied, and the user
has a preferred library saved in a cookie recognized by the server,
the user's search will be redirected to that library's catalog.

If a value for the library parameter is not supplied, and the user
does not have a preferred library saved in a cookie recognized by the server,
the user will be shown a list of libraries known to the server and
select one to search, and to be saved in a cookie as the user's
preferred library.  (The user can also click on another link to
select a library to search *without* having that library saved.)

The special value 0CHOOSE0 for this parameter *forces* the user to choose
a library to search, even if they have a preferred library.  The
resulting search will not save that library as the user's preferred library.
  
There are also a number of search parameters that can be supplied:

  kw

The value of this parameter is a string that should be used in a general
keyword search at the destination library's catalog.

  ti

The value of this parameter is a string that should be used in a title
search at the destination library's catalog.

  au

The value of this parameter is a string that should be used as the basis for
an author search at the destination library's catalog.  The search
may literally use the supplied string, or it might transform the string
as specified by the 'at' parameter.

  su

The value of this parameter is a string that should be used as the basis for
a subject search at the destination library's catalog.  The search
may literally use the supplied string, or it might transform the string
as specified by the 'st' parameter.

More than one of these search parameters may be supplied.  If both 'au'
and 'ti' are supplied, a combined author-title search redirect may be
attempted.  Other combinations of these search parameters might result
in only one of them being applied, depending on the server implementation.

The 'st' and 'at' parameters can be used to map a supplied search term
for a subjects or author, respectively, into a different search string
to use in the URL for searching the destination library.  Recognized
values at the moment for these paratmeters include:

   lccn
    The search term will be transformed, if possible,
      from a Library of Congress control number to a corresponding
       Library of Congress authorized heading.

   viaf
    The search term will be transformed, if possible,
      from a VIAF identifier to a corresponding Library of Congress
       authorized heading.

   wp
    The search term will be transformed, if possible, from a Wikipedia
      article title to a closely matching Library of Congress authorized
      heading.  (Transformations may be based on mappings declared in
      the 'wikimap' and 'wikiworksmap' files, described elsewhere, or on
      some basic lexical transformations.  Subject searches that use
      terms for which a transformation cannot be found may instead be
      turned into general keyword searchses on the supplied terms.)


The optional 'from' parameter will be documented in a later version of
this file.
